In the Babylonian Empire the king, Hammurabi created 282 laws he created while being guided by the gods. These laws covered everything from everyday life laws to criminal laws. Hammurabi’s Code of Laws is just for it’s  time, it was fair to the victim, to the accused, and to the society. The laws that best show that Hammurabi’s code is just are laws 53 & 54, these laws are agriculture laws. These laws are “If a man has opened his trench for irrigation and the waters have flooded his neighbor’s field, the man must restore the crop he has caused to be lost.”. The scenario in this law is when a man opens his trench (water source) and it floods and kills the neighbors crops, he has to replace all the crops that on his neighbors field that he caused his neighbor to lose. As you can see, Hammurabi's code is just for it’s time. Geographic challenges in Mesopotamia led to the rise of city-states. This started in the Zagros Mountains. People were living a nice life until the population grew out of control. There wasn’t enough food and there weren't enough houses, so they moved down south to the flat plains where there was a lot of room for farming and houses. The place where they settled soon became known as Sumer and the people living there were Sumerians. Moving to Sumer was the solution to the food and housing shortage but when they got there another problem arose. It was hot, the soil was hard and dry most of the year and sometimes the Tigris River and the Euphrates River flooded, giving much needed water to the thirsty fields. This killed all the early crops. To stop this, they built a complex irrigation system (this included: levees, dams, etc.). Building and maintaining this irrigation system took a lot of work and care (everyone needed to do their part or everything wouldn't work). But when they worked together, everyone had what they needed. Some communities were grabbing too much water, so the communities farther down the river wouldn’t get enough water. They started arguments that soon became battles. To protect against neighboring communities, the Sumerians had to find ways to protect themselves because there were no natural barriers (rivers, mountains) around. They thought of things that could block enemies from coming into their community. They thought of building walls around the community, so they did that, but they didn’t feel protected enough. They built a moat around their community with the access water. Now all the communities were living in harmony. They began thinking about others  farther away that maybe wanted to battle and take over. They thought for the better of all their communities, that they should merge into one big city-state so everyone would have all the water and materials and housing to survive and thrive in ancient Sumer. These challenges that the Sumerians faced as separated communities ended as they became large city-states. The agricultural revolution (raising crops and animals) is considered the most important event in human history because it turned paleolithic people (hunter gatherers) into neolithic people (farmers of plants and animals). The cause of the agricultural revolution is the discovery of growing crops and animals. A stable food supply started when neolithic people started to farm because the neolithic people would get lots of food one harvest and that would get them through a while and then the next harvest etc. When farmers became very productive they started to establish communities. Permanent shelters happened when the neolithic people started to have a stable food supply. Permanent shelters helped the neolithic people survive because it meant they had a roof over their heads so rain and that sort couldn't hurt them and animals couldn't get to them easily. Establishing communities let the neolithic people make very large farms, make big houses, and these houses were all connected to each other. As communities grew not everyone needed to farm so people started to do other productive things (like make bricks, baskets, tools). All this helped the community thrive. Over time people found out about other communities near them and near the people that are near them etc. and some of the communities had things other communities didn't have and that is how trade began, the things that people traded were things like baskets bricks etc. so everyone had things they wanted. This is why the agricultural revolution is the most important event in human history.